https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zMK8bPEerEM

the report entitled analysis and
assessment of the gateway process was
penned in 1983 by u.s army lieutenant
colonel wayne m mcdonnell mcdonald
described the gateway experience as a
training system designed to bring
enhanced strength focus and coherence to
the amplitude and frequency of brainwave
output between left and right
hemispheres so as to alter consciousness
moving it outside the physical space so
as to ultimately escape even the
restrictions of time and space in
simpler terms the gateway experience
uses sound to manipulate brainwaves with
a goal of creating an altered state of
consciousness in which a person can
interact with non-physical aspects of
reality practical uses of the technique
according to the cia report include
manifesting goals converting energy to
heal one's body and even traveling
across space and time to access new
information
the report was quietly declassified by
the cia in 2003 and largely went
unnoticed
1. Introduction
one
introduction
in order to describe the monroe
institute technique for achieving
altered states of consciousness the
gateway experience involving brain
hemisphere synchronization or hemisink
the most effective way to begin is to
briefly profile the basic mechanics
which underlay operation of related
methods such as hypnosis transcendental
meditation and biofeedback it is easiest
to effectively describe what gateway is
by beginning with a short description of
those associated techniques that share
some common aspects with the gateway
experience but which are nevertheless
different
in this way we can develop a frame of
reference at the outset which will
provide useful concepts to explain and
understand gateway by comparison as we
proceed
[Music]
5. Gateway and Hemi-Sync
5.
gateway and hemisink
fundamentally the gateway experience is
a training system designed to bring
enhanced strength focus and coherence to
the amplitude and frequency of brainwave
output between the left and right
hemispheres so as to alter consciousness
moving it outside the physical sphere so
as to ultimately escape even the
restrictions of time and space the
participant then gains access to the
various levels of intuitive knowledge
which the universe offers what
differentiates the gateway experience
from forms of meditation is its use of
the hemisink technique which is defined
in a monograph by monroe institute
trainer melissa jaeger as a state of
consciousness defined when the eeg
patterns of both hemispheres are
simultaneously equal in amplitude and
frequency although hemi sync seems to be
rather rare and of only short duration
in ordinary human consciousness melissa
jagger states that audio techniques
developed by bob munro can induce and
sustain hemisync with the institute's
basic focus 3 tapes she also notes that
studies conducted by elmer and alice
greene at the henniger foundation have
shown that a subject with 20 years of
training in zen meditation could
consistently establish hemisink at will
sustaining it for over 15 minutes
dr stewart twemlow a psychiatrist and
research associate of the monroe
institute reports in our studies of the
effect of the monroe tape system on
brainwaves we have found that the tapes
encourage the focusing of brain energy
it can be measured as with a light bulb
in watts into a narrower and narrower
frequency band the focusing of energy is
not unlike the yoga concept of
one-pointedness which we may translate
in western terms as single-mindedness dr
twemlow goes on to observe that as the
individual gets into the tapes beyond
focus 3 there is a gradual increase in
brainwave size which is a measure of
brain energy or power
Sample of the Hemi-Sync Tape
this is the first step along your path
to a gateway
a gateway beyond which is discovery
your own discovery of reality of truth
of who and what you are
because of the special audio techniques
used
it's important that certain sounds reach
your right ear and others your left ear
to be sure of this you should be hearing
my voice in your right ear at this
moment
if you are not hearing my voice in your
right ear
turn your headphones around now
so that you are hearing my voice in your
right ear
6. Lamp vs Laser
6.
lamp versus laser
melissa jaeger uses a metaphor to help
clarify the process involved in the use
of hemisink in the gateway experience
she points out that the human mind in
its natural state may be likened to an
ordinary lamp which expands energy in
the form of both heat and light but in a
chaotic incoherent way which diffuses
its energy over a wide area of rather
limited depth on the other hand the
human mind under the discipline of
hemisink acts in the fashion of a laser
beam which produces a disciplined stream
of light the stream of energy is
projected with total coherence of both
frequency and amplitude such that the
surface area of a laser beam contains
billions of times the concentrated
energy found in a similar surface area
on the sun gateway assumes that once the
frequency and amplitude of the human
brain are rendered coherent it is
possible to begin accelerating both so
that the human mind is soon resonating
at ever higher vibrational levels the
mind can then bring itself into
synchronization with more sophisticated
and rarefied energy levels in the
universe the mind when operating at
these increasingly rarefied levels is
assumed to be capable of processing the
information thus received through the
same fundamental matrix by which it
makes sense of ordinary physical sensory
input to achieve meaning in a cognitive
context
such meaning is usually perceived
visually in the form of symbols but may
also be perceived as astonishing flashes
of holistic intuition or even in the
form of scenarios involving both visual
and oral perception the mechanics by
which the mind exercises the
consciousness function will be addressed
in more detail later in this paper
7. Frequency Following Response (FFR)
7. frequency following response
to achieve synchronization of brain
hemispheres the hemisink technique takes
advantage of a phenomenon known as the
frequency following response ffr which
means that if a subject hears a sound
produced at a frequency which emulates
one of those associated with the
operation of the human brain the brain
will try to mimic the same frequency
pattern by adjusting its brainwave
output therefore if the subject is in a
fully awake state but here's sound
frequencies which approximate brainwave
output at the theta level the subject's
brain will endeavor to alter its
brainwave pattern from the normal beta
to the theta level since the theta level
is associated with sleep the subject
concerned may progress from a fully
awake to a sleep state providing that he
does not consciously resist as the brain
strives to entrain its wave frequency
output with one which the person hears
since these brainwave frequencies are
outside of the spectrum of sounds which
can be heard in pure form by the human
ear hemisink must produce them based on
another phenomenon known as the brain's
capacity for deducing beat frequencies
if the human brain is exposed to one
frequency in the left ear which is 10
hertz below another audible frequency
played in the right ear rather than
hearing either of the two audible
frequencies the brain chooses to hear
the difference between them the beat
frequency thus availing itself of the
ffr phenomenon and using the technique
of beat frequencies the gateway system
uses hemisync and other audio techniques
employing the ffr phenomenon to
introduce a variety of frequencies which
are played at a virtually subliminal
marginally audible level the objective
is to relax the left hemisphere of the
brain place the physical body in a
virtual sleep state and bring the left
and right hemispheres into coherence
under conditions designed to promote the
production of ever higher amplitude and
frequency of brainwave output audible
and perhaps subliminal suggestions by
bob monroe accompany the various
brainwave frequencies which are
sometimes rolled in together with other
sounds such as c surf to mask the sound
frequencies were desirable in this way
gateway endeavors to provide the subject
with the tools by which he may alter his
consciousness based on his own volition
over time through the repetitive use of
the tapes so as to access via intuitive
means new categories of information not
available to ordinary consciousness
8. Role of Resonance
8. role of resonance
however brain coherence through
entrainment to beat frequencies
introduced via stereo headphones is only
part of the reason why the gateway
system works it is also designed to
achieve the physical quietude
characteristic of deep transcendental
meditative states which bring about a
complete alteration of the fundamental
resonance pattern associated with the
sound frequencies produced by the human
body yoga zen or transcendental
meditation if practiced long enough will
produce a change in the sound frequency
with which the human heart resonates
throughout the entire body according to
bentov this change in resonance results
from the elimination of what the medical
profession calls the bifurcation echo so
that the sound of the heartbeat can move
synchronously up and down the
circulatory system in harmonious
resonance approximately seven times a
second benshov describes the role played
by the bifurcation echo as follows when
the left ventricle of the heart ejects
blood the aorta being elastic balloons
out just beyond the valve and causes a
pressure pulse to travel down along the
aorta when the pressure pulse reaches
the bifurcation in the lower abdomen
which is where the aorta forks into to
go into the legs part of the pressure
pulse rebounds and starts traveling up
the aorta if in the meantime the heart
ejects more blood and a new pressure
pulse is traveling down these two
pressure points will eventually collide
somewhere along the aorta and produce an
interference pattern by placing the body
in a sleep-like state the gateway tapes
achieve the same goal as meditation in
that it places the body in such a
profoundly relaxed state that the
bifurcation echo slowly fades away as
the heart lessens the force and
frequency with which it pushes blood
into the aorta the result is a regular
rhythmic sine wave pattern of sound
which echoes throughout the body and
rises up into the head in sustained
resonance the amplitude of this sine
wave pattern when measured with a
sensitive seismograph type instrument is
about three times the average of the
sound volume produced by the heart when
it is operating normally
9. Brain Stimulation
nine
brain stimulation
bentoff's biomedical model shows that
this resonance is of considerable
importance since it is directly
transmitted to and impacts upon the
brain the resulting vibration is
received and transmitted into the brain
itself via the fluid-filled third and
left ventricles located above the
brainstem an electromagnetic pulse is
then generated which stimulates the
brain to raise the amplitude and
frequency of brainwave output just as dr
twemlow observed in his research on the
effects of the hemisink tapes also the
brain is contained in a tight membrane
called the dura which is in turn
cushioned by a thin layer of fluid
located between it and the skull as the
coherent resonance produced by the human
heart in a state of profound relaxation
reaches the fluid layer surrounding the
brain it sets up a rhythmic pattern in
which the brain moves up and down
approximately .005
to .01 millimeters in a continuous
pattern the self-reinforcing character
of resonant behavior accounts for the
body's ability to sustain this movement
despite the minimal level of energy
involved in this way the entire body
based on its own micro motion functions
as a tuned vibrational system which
transfers energy in a range between 6.8
and 7.5 hertz into the earth's
ionospheric cavity which itself
resonates at about 7 to 7.5 hertz of
this process bentav states this is
occurring at a very long wavelength of
about 40 000 kilometers or just above
the perimeter of the planet in other
words the signal from the movement of
our bodies will travel around the world
in about 1 7 of a second through the
electrostatic field in which we are
embedded such a long wavelength knows no
obstacles and its strength does not
attenuate much over large distances
naturally it will go through just about
anything metal concrete water and the
fields making up our bodies it is the
ideal medium for conveying a telepathic
signal consequently the gateway process
is designed to rather rapidly induce a
state of profound calm within the
nervous system and to significantly
lower blood pressure to cause the
circulatory system skeleton and all
other physical organ systems to begin
vibrating coherently at approximately 7
to 7.5 cycles per second the resulting
resonance sets up a regular repetitive
sound wave which propagates in
consonance with the electrostatic field
of the earth
10. Energy Entrainment
10. energy entrainment
as the body is tuned into a coherent
oscillator vibrating in harmony with the
surrounding electrostatic medium the
specific exercises included in the
gateway tapes enjoy the participant to
build up the energy field surrounding
his body presumably by using energy from
the earth's field which the body is now
in training because of its ability to
resonate with it this puts the body's
energy field into homogeneity with its
surrounding environment and promotes
movement of the seat of consciousness
into the surrounding environment partly
in response to the fact that the two
electromagnetic medians are now a single
energy continuum thus the same process
which moves the brain into focused
coherence at steadily higher levels of
frequency and amplitude so as to entrain
analogous frequencies in the universe
for data collection also promotes the
enhancement of bodily energy levels to a
point adequate to permit the subject to
experience an out-of-body movement when
he is ready to do so in addition by
resonating with the earth's
electromagnetic sphere the human body
creates a surprisingly powerful carrier
wave to assist the mind in communication
activity with other human minds
similarly tuned
